README.md, before:

enix.postgresql_replication
=================

A role for deploying and configuring [postgresql](http://www.postgresql.org) replication cluster on unix hosts using [Ansible](http://www.ansible.com/).


Requirements
------------

Supported targets:

- Debian 8 "Jessie"
- Debian 9 "Stretch"


Role Variables
--------------

This roles comes preloaded with almost every available default. You can override each one in your hosts/group vars, in your inventory, or in your play. See the annotated defaults in `defaults/main.yml` for help in configuration. All provided variables start with `postgresql_replication__`.

This role work in a different way than several others in a way that in order to make different cluster hosts roles independent we use ansible groups. There is so 3 different groups to define in your inventory. to make this usable with different clusters in the same inventory they are configurable.
- `postgresql_replication__group` - the main group of hosts for this cluster, default: `postgresql`
- `postgresql_replication__group_master` - the master group that must include only *one host*, default: `postgresql_master`
- `postgresql_replication__group_replicas` - the group including the replicas hosts, default: `postgresql_replicas`
Your inventory must have in final this form (yaml format exemple):
```
all:
  children:
    postgresql:
      children:
        postgresql_master:
          hosts:
            db-01:
              ansible_host: 185.145.251.12
        postgresql_replicas:
          hosts:
            db-02:
              ansible_host: 185.145.251.243
```
- `postgresql_replication__user` - the username to use for authentification of replication nodes. default : `replicate`.
- `postgresql_replication__password` - the postgresql_replication__user password. *It is important to change default on production clusters*. default: `replicate`.
- `postgresql_replication__waldir` - Directory used to store WAL file sent from the master node to the replication nodes.

Sending servers configuration. See (https://www.postgresql.org/docs/11/runtime-config-replication.html#RUNTIME-CONFIG-REPLICATION-SENDER) for details of correct values for your setup.
- `postgresql_replication__walsenders` - Number of wal sender processes to enable. default : `3`.
- `postgresql_replication__walsegments` - Number of wal segments to keep (16MB each). default: `64`.
- `postgresql_replication__trigger_file` - File used to trigger master operation on a slave node. default: `/tmp/MasterNow`

- `postgresql_replication__bootstrap` - *Very important*. when this variable is set to `"yesiwant"` the deployement will remove all datas on hosts defined in `postgresql_replication__group_replicas` and proceed with a fresh `pg_basebackup` from the master. *Take care as if you enable this and do not properly setup hosts in groups you can completely destroy you datas*.

Dependencies
------------

- [enix.postgresql](https://galaxy.ansible.com/enix/postgresql)

Usage
-----

Use Ansible galaxy requirements.yml

    - src: enix.postgresql_replication

And add it to your play's roles:

    - hosts: postgresql
      roles:
        - role enix.postgresql_replication:
            postgresql__version: 11
            postgresql__global_config_options:
              - option: listen_addresses
                value: '*'
              - option: log_min_duration_statement
                value: 1000
            postgresql__hba_entries:
              - {type: local, database: all, user: postgres, auth_method: peer}
              - {type: local, database: all, user: all, auth_method: peer}
              - {type: host, database: all, user: all, address: "0.0.0.0/0", auth_method: md5}
              - {type: hostssl, database: replication, user: "{{ postgresql_replication__user }}", address: "0.0.0.0/0" ,auth_method: md5}
            postgresql__users:
              - {name: "{{ postgresql_replication__user }}", password: "{{ postgresql_replication__password }}", role_attr_flags: "REPLICATION"}


You can also use the role as a playbook. You will be asked which hosts to provision, and you can further configure the play by using `--extra-vars`.

    $ ansible-playbook -i inventory --extra-vars='{...}' main.yml

Still to do
-----------

- Add real gitlab / travis CI
- Add tests using molecule


Changelog
---------

### 1.0.0

Initial version.

License
-------

GPLv2

Author Information
------------------

Laurent CORBES <laurent.corbes@enix.fr> - http://www.enix.io

Commit message:

Version 1.1.0
Update README for version 1.1.0

README.md, after:

enix.postgresql_replication
=================

A role for deploying and configuring [postgresql](http://www.postgresql.org) replication cluster on unix hosts using [Ansible](http://www.ansible.com/).


Requirements
------------

Supported targets:

- Debian 8 "Jessie"
- Debian 9 "Stretch"


Role Variables
--------------

This roles comes preloaded with almost every available default. You can override each one in your hosts/group vars, in your inventory, or in your play. See the annotated defaults in `defaults/main.yml` for help in configuration. All provided variables start with `postgresql_replication__`.

This role work in a different way than several others in a way that in order to make different cluster hosts roles independent we use ansible groups. There is so 3 different groups to define in your inventory. to make this usable with different clusters in the same inventory they are configurable.
- `postgresql_replication__group` - the main group of hosts for this cluster, default: `postgresql`
- `postgresql_replication__group_master` - the master group that must include only *one host*, default: `postgresql_master`
- `postgresql_replication__group_replicas` - the group including the replicas hosts, default: `postgresql_replicas`
Your inventory must have in final this form (yaml format exemple):
```
all:
  children:
    postgresql:
      children:
        postgresql_master:
          hosts:
            db-01:
              ansible_host: 185.145.251.12
        postgresql_replicas:
          hosts:
            db-02:
              ansible_host: 185.145.251.243
```
- `postgresql_replication__user` - the username to use for authentification of replication nodes. default : `replicate`.
- `postgresql_replication__password` - the postgresql_replication__user password. *It is important to change default on production clusters*. default: `replicate`.
- `postgresql_replication__waldir` - Directory used to store WAL file sent from the master node to the replication nodes.

Sending servers configuration. See (https://www.postgresql.org/docs/11/runtime-config-replication.html#RUNTIME-CONFIG-REPLICATION-SENDER) for details of correct values for your setup.
- `postgresql_replication__walsenders` - Number of wal sender processes to enable. default : `3`.
- `postgresql_replication__walsegments` - Number of wal segments to keep (16MB each). default: `64`.
- `postgresql_replication__trigger_file` - File used to trigger master operation on a slave node. default: `/tmp/MasterNow`

- `postgresql_replication__bootstrap` - *Very important*. when this variable is set to `"yesiwant"` the deployement will remove all datas on hosts defined in `postgresql_replication__group_replicas` and proceed with a fresh `pg_basebackup` from the master. *Take care as if you enable this and do not properly setup hosts in groups you can completely destroy you datas*.

Dependencies
------------

- [enix.postgresql](https://galaxy.ansible.com/enix/postgresql)

Usage
-----

Use Ansible galaxy requirements.yml

    - src: enix.postgresql_replication

And add it to your play's roles:

    - hosts: postgresql
      roles:
        - role enix.postgresql_replication:
            postgresql__version: 11
            postgresql__global_config_options:
              - option: listen_addresses
                value: '*'
              - option: log_min_duration_statement
                value: 1000
            postgresql__hba_entries:
              - {type: local, database: all, user: postgres, auth_method: peer}
              - {type: local, database: all, user: all, auth_method: peer}
              - {type: host, database: all, user: all, address: "0.0.0.0/0", auth_method: md5}
              - {type: hostssl, database: replication, user: "{{ postgresql_replication__user }}", address: "0.0.0.0/0" ,auth_method: md5}
            postgresql__users:
              - {name: "{{ postgresql_replication__user }}", password: "{{ postgresql_replication__password }}", role_attr_flags: "REPLICATION"}


You can also use the role as a playbook. You will be asked which hosts to provision, and you can further configure the play by using `--extra-vars`.

    $ ansible-playbook -i inventory --extra-vars='{...}' main.yml

Still to do
-----------

- Add real gitlab / travis CI
- Add tests using molecule


Changelog
---------

### 1.1.0

Update group names to postgresql_master and postgresql_replicas.
Comply with ansible 2.8+ group names requirements

### 1.0.0

Initial version.

License
-------

GPLv2

Author Information
------------------

Laurent CORBES <laurent.corbes@enix.fr> - http://www.enix.io
